# azuredatabricks-dbms-scalable-cdc
Scalable CDC from DBMS to Azure Databricks

Summary of algorithm
- CDC program send change data from various tables into ADLS Gen 2 folder, each table has its own folder. 
- Each change data file will come with a schema file (dfm) that describe the schema of the data file
- Azure Eventgrid listen to new files landed in the subscribed folder and create messages  detailing locations and type of operations for each file
- Our main program will read messages from message queue, sort them by table then process messages in batch with a predefined size. By sorting we will have least number of table possible in each batch
- Within each batch, the process_files program will group by table and retrieve a unique schema file and data files for each table in the group by. From schema file, it will form the schema and use it to retrieve data  
- For insert data, use regular insert. For update and delete, user MERGE to merge data to target table

Libraries: Please install azure-storage-queue and azure to Databricks cluster

Data: We use a sample CDC files generated by Attunity. Please update the sample data to folder where each folder represents a landing location for a table.

Configuring Azure Eventgrid and Storage Queue

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-grid/custom-event-to-queue-storage

1. Setup Event subscription in your storage account
2. Route the event to a Storage Queue 

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2020 James Nguyen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
